Migration 8.x to 9.0
======================

The 9.0 version uses the new plugins cakephp/authentication[(read more)](../Authentication.md) and cakephp/authorization[(read more)](../Authorization.md)  instead of CakePHP
Authentication component. This version is compatible with CakePHP 4.x and the plugin
code was updated to remove all deprecations. 

Configuration file users.php
----------------------------
We have added/removed/changed some configurations to work with new authentication/authorization
plugins, if you created a custom config file, please compare your file with the default
config/users.php from this plugin.

* Users.middlewareQueueLoader was added;

* Users.auth was removed since AuthComponent is not used;

* Users.Social.authenticator was removed in favor of Auth.Authenticators.Social and Auth.Identifiers.Social;

* Users.GoogleAuthenticator was renamed to OneTimePasswordAuthenticator;

* GoogleAuthenticator was renamed to OneTimePasswordAuthenticator;

* Auth.authenticate was removed in favor of Auth.Authentication, Auth.AuthenticationComponent,
Auth.Authenticators, Auth.Identifiers

* Auth.authorize was removed in favor of Auth.Authorization, Auth.AuthorizationMiddleware,
Auth.AuthorizationComponent

* Added Auth.SocialLoginFailure to handle social login

* Added Auth.FormLoginFailure to handle form login

* CakeDC/Auth was upgraded and now has a better way to handle social login. 
Oauth providers config like OAuth.providers.facebook requires two new config keys, 'service' and 'mapper'.

* Users.controller config now is also used in mapping users routes (/login, register).
You need to give permissions to your new controller actions.

* Users controller rely on CakeDC/Users.Setup Component, when using a custom users controller make sure to load it.
```php

    /**
     * Initialize
     *
     * @return void
     */
    public function initialize()
    {
        parent::initialize();
        $this->loadComponent('CakeDC/Users.Setup');
        if ($this->components()->has('Security')) {
            $this->Security->setConfig(
                'unlockedActions',
                ['login', 'u2fRegister', 'u2fRegisterFinish', 'u2fAuthenticate', 'u2fAuthenticateFinish']
            );
        }
    }
```

Loading the Plugin
------------------
In this version you need to load the plugin in your [Application class](https://github.com/cakephp/app/blob/master/src/Application.php).
```
    /**
     * {@inheritDoc}
     */
    public function bootstrap()
    {
        // Call parent to load bootstrap from files.
        parent::bootstrap();
        
        //your code
       
        $this->addPlugin(\CakeDC\Users\Plugin::class);
    }
```

Renamed Events
--------------
All events constants were moved from AuthComponent to Plugin class and
their values was also updated.

* `Users.Component.UsersAuth.afterLogin` renamed to `Users.Authentication.afterLogin`
* `Users.Component.UsersAuth.beforeLogout` renamed to `Users.Authentication.beforeLogout`
* `Users.Component.UsersAuth.afterLogout` renamed to `Users.Authentication.afterLogout`
* `Users.Component.UsersAuth.beforeRegister` renamed to `Users.Global.beforeRegister`
* `Users.Component.UsersAuth.afterRegister` renamed to `Users.Global.afterRegister`
* `Users.Component.UsersAuth.afterResetPassword` renamed to `Users.Global.afterResetPassword`
* `Users.Component.UsersAuth.beforeSocialLoginUserCreate` renamed to `Users.Global.beforeSocialLoginUserCreate`
* `Users.Component.UsersAuth.onExpiredToken` renamed to `Users.Global.onExpiredToken`
* `Users.Component.UsersAuth.afterResendTokenValidation` renamed to `Users.Global.afterResendTokenValidation`

Removed Events
--------------
* `Users.Component.UsersAuth.isAuthorized` use cakephp\authorization components or \CakeDC\Auth\Traits\IsAuthorizedTrait instead.
* `Users.Component.UsersAuth.beforeLogin` implement a middleware before authetication middleware.
* `Users.Component.UsersAuth.failedSocialLogin`
* `Users.Component.UsersAuth.afterCookieLogin`

Getting Authenticated User
--------------------------

In previous version you usually used AuthComponent to get the authenticated
user, now you should use the provided 'identity' attribute, you can do this
in your controller.

```
$user = $this->getRequest()->getAttribute('identity');
if ($user) {
    //Do stuff
}
```
